[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Well,
welcome to "Beyond Belief."
We're going to talk about
intuition on the program
today with Dr. Jeffrey
Mishlove, PhD, doctor.
He's the only doctoral
diploma expert
with a degree in
parapsychology ever awarded
by an accredited
university, and that
was the University of California
Berkeley back in 1980.
And he is a noted author
of several classic books,
including "The PK Man."
Jeffrey, welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
>>JEFFREY MISHLOVE: It's
a pleasure to be with you.
>>NOORY: You are a giant in
this field, did you know that?
>>MISHLOVE: No.
>>NOORY: Oh, yeah, your
reputation precedes yourself.
>>MISHLOVE: Well, I'm delighted
to hear that, thank you.
>>NOORY: "The PK Man".
I'll always remember that one.
That was your first major book.
And it just captured the
attention of everybody.
What made you write that?
>>MISHLOVE: Well, I'd
done 10 years of research
with this fellow, Ted Owens,
who proclaimed himself,
loudly in fact, to be the
world's greatest psychic.
And when I first
met him in London,
he walked on the stage
carrying a toy wagon.
Big man with a beard and a
booming voice and a toy wagon
stacked high with
papers, and he said
these papers prove that
everything he says is true.
And as a researcher--
I was a graduate
student at the time.
I thought, my goodness, if
what he's saying is correct,
somebody ought to look into it.
And I soon discovered that
my friends Hal Puthoff
and Russell Targ at
SRI at International
had been besieged by him.
They had a similar
stack of papers.
And they wanted nothing
more than to get rid of it
because they were doing work for
the CIA, and they felt that--
>>NOORY: They had
other things to do.
>>MISHLOVE: A character
like Ted Owens
was going to be too much
of a loose cannon for them.
So they were happy to get
rid of all this material
and give it all to me.
And that started by
research with them.
It lasted for 10 years.
It was unbelievable
because, in spite
of the fact that the man you'd
have to say was a braggart,
I suppose, but what he
was claiming bore out
most of the time.
I had, on my files,
over 160 examples
of demonstrations of psychic
powers that he had produced.
And I would say roughly
2/3 of them worked out just
as he said they would.
>>NOORY: So after you got
done of 10 years worth of work
with this guy,
what did you think?
>>MISHLOVE: I thought that
his claims were unbelievable.
I couldn't accept them,
but I couldn't deny them
at the same time.
He said he was in
telepathic contact
with aliens, invisible aliens
in a giant spaceship hovering
over the earth that
was also invisible.
It made no logical,
rational sense.
But if you looked at
his batting average,
he was better than Babe Ruth.
He died in 1987.
>>NOORY: Oh, that was early.
>>MISHLOVE: Yeah.
>>NOORY: A long time ago.
I did the research
between '76 and '87.
The first draft of the
book was completed by 1979.
And when me and my
co-author, D. Scott Rogo,
well-known parapsychologist,
showed it to publishers,
they couldn't believe
that it was non-fiction.
They assumed it was a
very poorly written novel.
>>NOORY: [LAUGHS]
>>MISHLOVE: And so it sat
in my basement for 20 years
before it was published
as a book in 1999.
>>NOORY: Jeffrey,
did Ted ever explain
how he got these abilities?
>>MISHLOVE: He
claimed that he had
been watched by
these alien beings
since he was a child, that
they made sure that he engaged
in many different professions.
He was a bullwhip artist at the
circus, a high-speed typist.
He worked in the parapsychology
laboratory of JB Rhine
at Duke University.
>>NOORY: Can't get
much better than that.
>>MISHLOVE: He was
a jazz drummer.
He did all of these things.
And he said they guided
him so that his mind would
be capable of manipulating their
very complex symbol system,
and they could
interact with him.
He also said that they had been
waiting for over 1,000 years
to find somebody with as strong
a nervous system as his so
that they could
channel whatever they
were channeling through him.
He maintained he
was the first person
they had found since Moses
who could do these things.
>>NOORY: What was the
moment, the epiphany for you
where you believed this?
>>MISHLOVE: It
was very dramatic.
Well, there were several
very dramatic ones.
But in this case, he was
going to produce a UFO for me.
I saw on the files that he had
produced UFOs for witnesses.
>>NOORY: He would
summon them down.
>>MISHLOVE: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>MISHLOVE: Yeah, so
he said, yes, I'll
make a UFO appear within
a 50-mile radius of San
Francisco.
And in fact, he said
I'll make three appear.
Then one happened.
And then he got on the
phone with me, and he said,
Jeffrey, I can feel it coming.
This is going to be big.
It's going to be seen
by hundreds of people.
He said, it will
be photographed,
and the photograph
will be published
in the front page of one
of your local newspapers
in the San Francisco area.
Well, just a few days later,
that's exactly what happened.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>MISHLOVE: That
got my attention.
>>NOORY: Wow.
That would get your attention.
>>MISHLOVE: Not only
was it photographed,
it was videotaped.
The videotape was published
on KQED evening news,
Channel 9 in San Francisco.
>>NOORY: You are
one of the forefront
experts in the subject matter
we're talking about tonight,
and that is intuition.
>>MISHLOVE: Yes.
>>NOORY: Tell us, first of
all, what your gut tells you
about intuition?
What is it?
>>MISHLOVE: Intuition
is the natural ability
of the human mind to directly
perceive reality around us.
>>NOORY: OK.
Taught by what?
How do we get this ability?
>>MISHLOVE: We're born with it.
This is how children learn
language, for example.
They don't go to school
to learn how to speak.
>>NOORY: True.
>>MISHLOVE: They pick it
up, and it's very natural.
But as we get older, especially
as we become more schooled,
we develop our
other capabilities.
Our logical mind takes
precedence over intuition,
often, to our own detriment.
>>NOORY: Why are some
people better at intuition
than others?
>>MISHLOVE: Well, sometimes it's
just sort of beaten out of you.
If you're a young
boy-- you probably
remember this yourself.
Big boys don't cry.
>>NOORY: I'm not supposed to.
>>MISHLOVE: Yeah.
Don't be in touch with
your inner feelings.
>>NOORY: I think I get more
emotional the older I get,
by the way.
>>MISHLOVE: Yeah, sure.
It's because we allow ourselves
to get in touch a little more
with the inner child,
which, you could say,
that's the intuitive part.
>>NOORY: How many
people, though,
do not act on their intuition,
and something happens to them,
and they go, oh, I knew it.
I knew it.
>>MISHLOVE: Doesn't
that happen often?
>>NOORY: All the time, yeah.
>>MISHLOVE: Yeah.
Our culture is heavily
out of balance.
We emphasize the sensational.
We emphasize the intellect.
We emphasize emotions.
But intuition is
the least emphasized
of our human talents.
>>NOORY: How did you get
involved in parapsychology
and a degree in parapsychology?
>>MISHLOVE: Well, I was
originally studying criminology
at Berkeley.
I was working in
San Quentin prison
conducting group therapy with
murderers and sex offenders.
And I made a decision
that I wanted
to study the positive aspects
of human deviance, not
the negative.
It was impossible to
do that at Berkeley.
You could study
psychopathology and crime
in many different departments.
But you couldn't
study creativity,
psychic functioning,
mysticism, intuition.
>>NOORY: No.
>>MISHLOVE: And I agonized over
this for months and months.
Then, one day I
knew the answer was
going to come to me in a dream.
And it did.
It came to me in a
dream that night.
I woke from the
dream exhilarated,
but I had no idea why because--
>>NOORY: The great
poet Robert Frost once
wrote a poem called
"The Road Not Taken."
>>MISHLOVE: Yeah
>>NOORY: Are you glad
you took this road?
>>MISHLOVE: Oh, I am so glad.
But you know what?
And this, I think, is
the lesson I learned.
The dream provided the answer
for me, but I had to push.
I had to act out the dream to
discover what the answer was.
And it led me to where
I am with you right now,
in effect, into media work.
And that allowed me to create
a unique doctoral degree
program at Berkeley.
>>NOORY: Fascinating.
>>MISHLOVE: And I am glad
for it every day of my life.
>>NOORY: Fascinating.
And well, we are too,
by the way, Jeffrey.
We are too.
Yeah, right, you've
got a channel
called "New Thinking Aloud."
Tell me about that.
>>MISHLOVE: It's
a YouTube channel.
And I interview mostly
other professionals
working in parapsychology.
Because there are no programs
in parapsychology in the United
States.
There are several in Europe.
But I think someday
there will be.
And this will be a
resource for people
who really want to get in to the
depths of what serious scholars
have to say about this field.
>>NOORY: On this
channel, you interviewed
Joe McMoneagle, one of the
experts of remote viewing.
>>MISHLOVE: Define, for our
viewers who may not know,
what remote viewing actually is.
>>JOSEPH MCMONEAGLE: Remote
viewing is the ability,
under protocol, the ability
to describe a person, place,
event, anything it's
remote from you,
that you have
absolutely no access to,
and no one's told
you anything about.
>>MISHLOVE: The
protocol aside, it's
very similar to what
parapsychologists and others
have called clairvoyance
for the last hundred years.
>>MCMONEAGLE: Yes,
it probably is closer
to clairvoyance because we don't
know how the information gets
to the psychic.
We do know that it can be
noise, tastes, smells, visions.
It can be anything
all mixed together.
You can have, uh anesthesia
taking place, so almost
anything.
>>MISHLOVE: It's a controversial
field because, on the one hand,
you participated in a
government-sponsored program
that ran for 20 years.
And on the other hand, there
are many, many people out there
in the world today who A,
either have no knowledge or B,
have a great deal of
misinformation about it,
or C believe that
it's impossible
and could never have
occurred in the first place.
>>MCMONEAGLE: That's
correct, all three groups.
I'm not sure which
one's the largest.
>>NOORY: Joe is, of course,
one of the foremost experts
in remote viewing, part of
the government's program too,
wasn't he?
>>MISHLOVE: Indeed, he was.
Sometimes he's referred to
as remote viewer number one,
not that he was necessarily the
first, but perhaps the best.
>>NOORY: But he worked with Ingo
Swann, and Russell Targ, Hal
Puthoff, all of them.
>>MISHLOVE: That's correct.
Yeah, and he's actively
involved in the Psychological
Association.
He's a rare person who is
gifted with, what I would call,
psychic talent or
remote viewing.
But he works closely
with researchers,
and he has the whole time.
>>NOORY: Do you see
remote viewing, Jeffrey,
different than intuition, or
is it all one in the same?
>>MISHLOVE: I would say this.
Remote viewing is one
kind of intuition,
but intuition is
a large umbrella.
And it includes all kinds
of psychic functioning,
but even things that
you wouldn't even
consider psychic, like if
you go to see a doctor,
and the doctor can diagnose you.
Well, it's based on a
lifetime of experience,
but it's also based
on inner knowing.
>>NOORY: If you had to
pick between remote viewing
or intuition, one gift,
what would that be?
>>MISHLOVE: Intuition.
>>NOORY: Intuition.
>>MISHLOVE: I would
choose intuition
because remote viewing
is very specialized.
You can work for the
government, perhaps,
as people once did to find
out what other countries are
doing or thinking.
Remote viewing has many
practical applications.
But most people want to
know, how should they
live their lives?
>>NOORY: True.
>>MISHLOVE: How do
they best become--
how can people become the
best version of themselves?
And that's where intuition
and only intuition
can provide the answer.
>>NOORY: Is there a
downside to being intuitive?
>>MISHLOVE: Actually, the only
downside that I can think of
is if you let it
go to your head.
If you become egotistical about
it, as, frankly, as Ted Owens
did.
>>NOORY: I was
just going to say,
it sounded like he
was one of them.
>>MISHLOVE: Well,
it's a great trap
because people admire everyone
who has psychic abilities.
It's awesome.
It's a miracle.
And people get very
excited by that.
It's easy to impress people
if you have psychic abilities,
but it's a trap.
>>NOORY: But haven't people
looked at Jeffrey, those people
with psychic abilities,
to be a little off
and whacked out over the years?
>>MISHLOVE: Well, indeed.
And it's because, as far as our
culture at large is concerned,
these abilities
are not accepted.
I mean, why is it that I'm the
only person in the world who
has a doctoral diploma
that says parapsychology?
I got that had in 1980,
nearly 40 years ago.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
You would think they would
be pumping out students
like crazy at universities.
>>MISHLOVE: How
many people have you
interviewed who work in this
area and are fascinated by it.
But the guardians of our
culture, the universities
don't want to deal with it.
>>NOORY: Well, and speaking of
universities, Duke University,
at one point, had the
Rhine Institute there
where they studied
under JB Rhine.
It was an amazing format
to be able to investigate
parapsychology.
When he died, the
program died there.
But isn't there still
a JB Rhine Institute
that his family has kept going?
>>MISHLOVE: There is, indeed.
And he, actually, he retired.
I think it was about 1964.
And he took the parapsychology
laboratory, at that point,
off campus.
He had independent funding.
So he, himself, kept
the laboratory going
and the foundation going.
And now the Rhine
Institute is still
active in Durham,
North Carolina.
And his daughter,
Sally Rhine Feather
is the head of the Institute.
>>NOORY: What do
they do there now?
>>MISHLOVE: They do
parapsychology research.
They have programs
for the public.
They also offer distant
learning programs as well.
They're one of the most
active parapsychology centers
in the United States.
>>NOORY: We know Uri
Geller quite well.
>>MISHLOVE: Yes.
>>NOORY: I love the guy.
He's amazing.
And he, of course,
for people who
don't know who he is,
was the spoon bender,
still is, where he
uses his psychic powers
to do these incredible things.
He's been on "Coast to
Coast" with me before.
And we talked about the day
Johnny Carson invited him on.
But he felt like he was kind of
set up with the whole saying.
Johnny was a amateur
magician, and he
wanted to prove to the world
that Uri was faking it.
And Uri was unable to bend
spoons on the Johnny Carson
Show because he was so
flabbergasted and frustrated
by that.
And he thought it was
the end of his career.
If anything, it
sparked his career
because he then got calls
from "The Mike Douglas Show"
and stuff like that
afterwards, and his career just
took off like a rocket.
But the interesting
thing is, Jeffrey,
he was on "Coast to Coast"
with me, on my radio show.
And he asked people to get
their dead watches and clocks
and hold them by the radio.
And he said, I'm going to
make them start for people.
And he did.
I was getting emails by
the hundreds from people
who were saying, my watch
that hasn't run in 10 years
is now ticking.
It was bizarre.
Years ahead, we replayed the
program on one of our weekend
shows where we have a segment
where we have the best of.
And I completely
didn't even notice
that we had his show running.
It was a taped programming
in a different slot
that I'm not live at.
And I'm getting emails from
people saying, my clock is
working, my watch is working.
And I'm going, what
the heck is this?
I realized we replayed it again.
And even on tape it works.
How do you explain that?
>>MISHLOVE: It
suggests to me, George,
that time is not what
we normally think it is.
People wonder, how do you
explain these strange things?
And I think we assume that time
and space are what they naively
appear to us to be.
But it's pretty clear to me that
time, space, and consciousness
are very different.
I think the best way to put it
is that time and space exist
within consciousness
rather than consciousness
exists within time and space.
>>NOORY: Yet, some people
cannot manifest their psychic
abilities.
Why?
Do they put up a block?
>>MISHLOVE: Well,
it's a deep question.
Why isn't everybody
psychic all the time?
>>NOORY: That's right.
You would think it was an
innate ability that we have.
>>MISHLOVE: Well, I think the
research shows, to the extent
that there is
research in this area,
because it's not a
well-funded field,
but the research shows
that young children can
be quite gifted.
But as they grow older,
they lose that ability.
And I think it's
because, frankly,
when you're a young child,
and you're growing up,
it becomes very important to you
to get along with your peers,
to learn how to make your
bed and tie your shoes
and interact here in
the physical world,
to develop an ego.
And as the young child
develops that ego,
they get less and less in touch
with their own inner being
and more and more in touch
with the outer world.
It's a normal part, I
think, of human development.
Some people never go back
and reawaken that inner child
with all of those intuitive
gifts that the inner child has.
And in fact, in many cases, the
inner child suffers from abuse.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>MISHLOVE: I can be
a very harsh world.
>>NOORY: Would you
encourage a young child
who has some of these
abilities to enhance them?
>>MISHLOVE: Yes, and I hope
that other people will as well.
I think it's very important.
Because oftentimes, when a young
child shows these abilities,
it frightens the parents.
>>NOORY: Let's talk a little
bit about these abilities
as they directly relate to
mental health, for example.
Some people have always
claimed that, if you
have psychic abilities,
you're mentally ill.
>>MISHLOVE: Well, in fact,
if you look at the Diagnostic
and Statistical Manual for
the American Psychiatric
Association, claiming to
have psychic abilities
is one of the symptoms that
could accompany psychosis.
So sometimes people
have mental illness,
and they believe
themselves to be psychic.
Other times, however,
people really are psychic,
and they get misdiagnosed
as being mentally ill.
We have severe cultural
problems around this.
>>NOORY: Have you looked at
the possibility of possession
and that spirit worlds might
be helping us out a little bit?
>>MISHLOVE: Well, I feel
like my life has been
helped by invisible forces.
And I would say this
to your viewers.
If you resolve to become the
best version of yourself,
the universe will
reach out and help you.
And the universe is very big.
It contains--
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>MISHLOVE: Let's say it
contains spiritual forces.
>>NOORY: Who is Dr.
Terrence Palmer?
>>MISHLOVE: Terry
Palmer, yes, indeed,
he is a specialist in what he
calls spirit release therapy.
If people do become possessed,
as you referred to earlier,
he has therapeutic methods--
gentle, not an exorcism at all--
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>MISHLOVE: --to help guide that
spirit toward its own evolution
and away from possessing you.
>>NOORY: He was on your show.
>>MISHLOVE: Yes, indeed.
We have, in previous
interviews, talked about some
of the dangers associated
with possession, that there
are cases in the records from
almost every culture of people
who get possessed
in a negative way
or come under some negative
psychic influence, maybe not
a full possession,
but an obsession
or a harmful influence, perhaps,
a harmful telepathic influence.
These phenomenon have been
studied and researched
at the Society for Psychical
Research for nearly 150 years
now.
>>TERRENCE PALMER: Yes.
The problem with, I suppose
the word possession,
is that it conjures up in
people's minds, generally,
things that we would perhaps
see in entertainment like films
like "The Exorcist,"
and "Rosemary's Baby,"
and things like that.
But in the real world
of everyday life,
each and every one of us
is vulnerable to some kind
of spiritual influence,
good and bad.
And the way I've learned,
from experience to view this,
is in much the same
way that we physically
have an immune system
that helps to protect us
from invasion from diseases.
Similarly, we have a
spiritual immune system
in the form of an
etheric body and an aura.
An I like, because
of the work I do,
I like to view this aura as
an armor, as a protection,
against infection.
>>NOORY: I think,
Jeffrey, it's amazing
that we have somebody
with his caliber
investigating these things.
>>MISHLOVE: It is indeed.
And he's published
a fascinating book
called "The Science
of Spirit Possession"
where he really looks
at it in great detail.
He got a doctoral degree
in England for doing that.
>>NOORY: When people
hear these words,
psychic attacks, possessions,
what do they think?
>>MISHLOVE: Well,
many people are
suspicious that this
is happening to them,
and they're frightened,
and they want
to know, what can they
do to protect themselves?
Other people I think
it's all superstition.
>>NOORY: Or mentally ill.
>>MISHLOVE: Or
mental illness, yes.
And there's a lot of
confusion around it
because we don't have a coherent
social cultural understanding
of these things.
We have half the
population thinking
it's the work of the devil
and the other half thinking
that it doesn't exist at all.
>>NOORY: What does
psychiatry say about this?
>>MISHLOVE: Well,
psychiatry now says
that, if a person is
experiencing psychic phenomena,
but they aren't troubled
in any other way,
it's not a symptom of psychosis.
It could be a very
healthy thing.
And in fact, if you
look at the research
around the most accomplished,
most successful people
in our culture, you'll find
that, typically, they do report
having had mystical and
psychic experiences that
were crucial to their
own development.
>>NOORY: Do you use these
abilities almost everyday
for yourself?
>>MISHLOVE: I would say this.
I consider myself a person
who is very open, that I've
had many, many
abilities like that,
but I don't profess to use them.
I don't claim to be a psychic.
I'm just a person who enjoys
a lot of psychic experiences
when they occur.
And I don't really
control when they occur,
but they seem to occur often.
>>NOORY: Would you say a
hunch is part of intuition?
>>MISHLOVE: Yes, I
would, or a gut feeling,
or a still, small voice.
There are many ways
that intuitions come.
But I encourage people to listen
to their body, for example.
What does your body
have to say to you?
>>NOORY: Dannion Brinkley, of
course, has died several times.
He's up to four times now.
As a matter of fact, he just had
another near-death experience.
He keeps telling me they
keep sending him back.
They don't want him.
So he may live until
he's 400, who knows?
But how does this
near-death experience
tie into some of these things?
>>MISHLOVE: People who have
had the near-death experience
almost universally come
away profoundly transformed
by the experience and certain
to the depths of their bones
that death is not the
end of consciousness,
that the consciousness
will survive death.
They say they know for sure
because they've been there.
And I think we have to pay
very careful attention to what
these people are saying.
Their experiences are
very profound and very
much akin to what mystics have
reported throughout the ages.
>>NOORY: Science is now
beginning to say that,
when you die, your
consciousness still exists,
and that many people
in their dying state--
of course we don't know.
We've not been there, and
we're in no rush to get there.
But that they know
they can't move,
but their consciousness
is still functioning.
They haven't moved on yet.
They know they're
dead in a body.
That's kind of scary, Jeffrey.
Trapped in your body,
and you know you're dead.
>>MISHLOVE: Yes, it could be
very scary for some people.
I encourage people to
look into the literature
because we're all
going to die someday.
Our physical body will die.
And it would be very helpful
for people to prepare for it.
In the Middle
Ages, they had what
they called the art
of dying, and I think
we've lost that to some degree.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
There are some boo-- the
"Tibetan Book of the Dead,"
the "Egyptian Book
of the Dead," which
are training guides,
trying to teach
people of that era what
was going to happen to you
when you died.
>>MISHLOVE: Mm-hmm,
and I think we
can learn a lot from the
experiences of people who have
had this near-death encounter.
There is a lot of research now
with mediums and communications
from the other side.
There's an enormous body of
research now on reincarnation.
And as far as I'm concerned,
it's incumbent upon all of us
to be familiar
with these fields.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
Dr. Eben Alexander who had
a near-death experience
has been on "Beyond
Belief" a couple times
with his amazing story.
>>EBEN ALEXANDER: It
changes you to realize
you're a spiritual being.
You're not just birth to
death in one incarnation,
but you have many incarnations.
Your higher self is one
connected to all other beings
to that divine force at
the core of the universe
that, indeed, NDE-ers
have been talking
about for thousands of years.
That is part of each
and every one of us.
Our very conscious awareness
has a direct relationship
with that calls of
force in the universe.
And it binds us all together
through love and compassion
and kindness, which
are the oldest
lessons from our
profits and mystics
and our religious systems.
When you get behind the
modern orthodoxies and all,
it's really all based in that
togetherness and that oneness.
And modern consciousness
studies are
proving that, from a
scientific viewpoint,
this is the way the
universe actually works.
>>NOORY: What do you think
a Dr. Alexander, Jeffrey?
>>MISHLOVE: He's become a
controversial figure because
of the fact that
he's so prominent.
The skeptics have pounced on
him and tried to denounce him.
>>NOORY: Brutalized him.
>>MISHLOVE: They have.
But as far as I'm
concerned, his testimony
is quite consistent with
the testimony of dozens
if not hundreds and
hundreds of other people
who have had
similar experiences.
So I have no reason to doubt his
sincerity and his authenticity.
>>NOORY: He's a medical doctor.
Why would he make this up?
>>MISHLOVE: Well, skeptics
have their reasons.
I don't even want
to go into them,
I think they're so trivial.
>>NOORY: A skeptic
one day we'll find out
that the other side does
exist, and that all this is
the real deal.
>>MISHLOVE: Presumably,
although, there
are those who say that, if you
believe that there's nothing
to experience after
you're dead, that's
what your experience
will be, that we
enter into a realm of
our own consciousness.
So for all I know, not
everybody gets reincarnated.
Not everybody has an afterlife.
And some people
would prefer not to.
Some people would
prefer oblivion.
And for all I know,
that's what they get.
>>NOORY: Is it sometimes
better to turn off
our psychic ability, or should
we always have it turned on?
>>MISHLOVE: Well, I have
talked to people who
wish they could turn it off.
And it can become an
annoyance if you're always
hearing voices, for example.
>>NOORY: Don't do this.
Do that.
>>MISHLOVE: Yeah.
You talk to people
like the Son of Sam,
the murderer who claim
there were voices
telling him to commit murder.
There are good reasons
why some people
might wish to turn it off.
>>NOORY: Sure.
Well, and you would think,
initially, people like that
are insane.
But then you stop
and think, what
if he's possessed
by some demon that's
really doing this to him?
How do we know?
>>MISHLOVE: In fact, Wilson
van Dusen who was chief
psychologist at Napa State
Hospital in California wrote
an article--
>>NOORY: About this.
>>MISHLOVE: Yeah,
I think a book,
yes, "The Presence of Spirits
in the World of Madness."
And he came to the conclusion
that everybody suffering
from what we call schizophrenia
was really dealing
with spiritual entities.
>>NOORY: Young children have
these incredible abilities.
Should we enhance that in
them or try to temper it?
>>MISHLOVE: Well, I think it's
important for young children
who show talent in
any area, whether it's
musical or mathematical
or intuition, that they
get support to
cultivate those talents.
It's not for everybody to
become a great intuitive
or a great athlete,
for that matter.
But for those who
have a special gift,
it's a shame that, when
children are highly intuitive,
it gets discouraged.
>>NOORY: When you
talked earlier, Jeffrey,
about reincarnation, what
are your personal beliefs
about that?
>>MISHLOVE: I would
say, at this point,
the research is overwhelming.
At the University
of Virginia, they
have some 2,500 cases
of young children
who, as soon as they
can start to talk,
begin describing
their past lives.
And in about half
of those cases,
researchers have
collected that information
and have actually successfully
identified the past life
that the child was describing.
So I think there's no
doubt, at this point,
that roughly 1,300 cases
of actual reincarnation
have been identified
by researchers.
>>NOORY: How about the
little child from Chicago
who believed he was a
World War II fighter
pilot, that he flew a
plane called the Concord,
and that he would tell his
parents about this plane.
There was no way a little kid
would know about this plane.
And he would say, Mama,
Daddy, when we landed,
the tires would blow out.
This was something
the government
tried to keep as a secret.
They didn't want anybody to know
that they had a defect here.
And sure enough, it was true.
How do you get that
kind of information
unless you experienced it?
>>MISHLOVE: Well, and that
would seem to be the case.
Now, there are critics of
this study who say, well, he
could've used telepathy.
He could've used remote viewing.
>>NOORY: A little kid?
>>MISHLOVE: As I
mentioned earlier,
little kids can be very psychic.
But I'd say the
weight of the evidence
supports the simple
reincarnation interpretation.
>>NOORY: They took him to a
reunion of some of the World
War II veterans when
they were still alive,
and the little kid recognized
some of the people.
>>MISHLOVE: Yes.
>>NOORY: I mean, that's
just unbelievable.
>>MISHLOVE: And there
are many cases like that.
This was a particularly strong
case you're referring to.
>>NOORY: Now, there are
techniques for training people
with psychic abilities.
How do we do that?
>>MISHLOVE: Well, the
most important thing
is to learn how to
quiet your mind.
It's very hard to pick
up psychic information
if your mind is busy
chattering all the time.
>>NOORY: True.
>>MISHLOVE: So I
would say people
who are interested in
cultivating intuition,
psychic functioning, the
number one thing they can do
is to learn how to relax.
>>NOORY: Legendary
psychic, of course,
is James Von Praagh
had a program
on Gaia called "Spirit Talk."
>>JAMES VON PRAAGH:
So today, we're
going to talk about
psychic ability.
Psychic, psychic
ability, known this?
How many people here
think you're psychic?
Raise your hand.
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7.
And why didn't you
guys raise your hand?
Now, the truth is,
everybody is psychic.
Everybody is born with
what's called intuition.
And intuition means,
into the soul.
It's the language of the soul.
And we're all born
with it because it's
kind of a survival technique.
We need this in order to
survive and to live life.
And that is really our--
we're born with it.
It's a sixth sense.
And we all have it.
We all possess a sixth sense.
How many people
here, for instance,
have thought about someone, five
minutes later, the phone rings,
and it's the first thing
we we're thinking of?
Raise your hand.
And you at home, yeah?
Or something you had in your
mind, a vision that happened,
or a scenario playing in my
mind, and often, the next day
it happens.
Yes?
Those people, yes.
They're all different
types of intuition
and how you use your intuition.
And you can develop
your intuition.
Everybody is psychic
from a degree or another.
There are some souls who
come into this world who
have maybe a little bit
more sensitivity than most.
And like myself,
who are empaths.
We're empaths; we pick up
energy; we feel things.
But every single
person can certainly
develop their psychic,
their intuition ability.
>>NOORY: He's right.
People can have this
ability, and you can
train people to be even better.
>>MISHLOVE: You can
train people to be
more consistent with
what they're doing
and more persistent.
I don't know that you can
train the initial ability,
because it's already there.
In the remote viewing
research, for example,
there's this first-time
effect, people
who have never done it before
and don't think of themselves
in the least bit as psychic,
the first time they do it,
they're often amazed at
how detailed and accurate
they can be.
But then the work begins.
To be able to do that
consistently time after time
after time, that
requires discipline.
>>NOORY: Do you say that
successful people have
an innate ability
to be intuitive.
And these people could be the
Bill Gates, the late Steven
Jobs from Apple Computer,
people like Mark Zuckerberg
from Facebook.
They all appear to--
Elon Musk, all these people,
Jeff Bezos from Amazon--
do they have the
psychic ability?
>>MISHLOVE: It's actually--
>>NOORY: They must
have something
>>MISHLOVE: --been tested.
Back in the 1970s, Douglas
Dean at the Newark--
then, called the Newark
School of Engineering--
took business executives
from successful companies
and compared them with
business executives whose
companies were losing money.
And he gave them a very
simple computerized test
of precognition, the
ability to see the future.
The successful executives
scored above chance--
>>NOORY: Way above.
>>MISHLOVE:
--statistically, yeah.
Those whose companies
were losing money
showed what we call Psy missing.
They missed the correct
target more often
than they should
by chance alone.
>>NOORY: Here's an example,
the Blockbuster Video stores.
They didn't have
the intuitiveness
or the remote viewing ability
to look into the future
because they got stuck
with all their stores
selling DVDs in an industry
that changed overnight
to streaming where you didn't
have to go to a video store
anymore if you didn't
want to buy this DVD.
You can simply sit back in
the comfort of your home,
play with your remote, and
that movie would pop up.
>>MISHLOVE: Yeah.
You might say they got
seduced by their own success.
Because--
>>NOORY: Somebody didn't--
>>MISHLOVE: They
were very successful.
>>NOORY: Somebody didn't
look for the future.
They weren't intuitive enough.
Now, how did they miss that?
>>MISHLOVE: Well, I
think it was because they
were so successful.
There were Blockbuster
Video stores everywhere.
>>NOORY: Everywhere.
>>MISHLOVE: And they were big.
>>NOORY: It was a publicly
held company, and it was big.
>>MISHLOVE: Yeah, so when you're
experiencing that much success,
what is the motive to
begin to look inside?
>>NOORY: I think there's
only one store left,
and it's owned by a private
individual, that's it.
But you have to have that
ability to look into the future
if you're going to be
successful, I think,
in anything.
>>MISHLOVE: And it's
not just an ability.
It's the willingness to do so.
Because as I mentioned
earlier, half the people
would tell you that I
don't want to do that.
It's diabolic.
It's not meant for humans.
And another half of the
people will say, ah,
there's no such thing
as precognition.
It's a fairytale.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
What is chaos magic, Jeffrey?
>>MISHLOVE: That's
very interesting.
And many, many young people
now are getting into it.
It's the idea that we
can manipulate things
with our mind.
And to the extent that chaos
is going on all around us,
it's more easy to manipulate.
So people who
practice chaos magic
are looking for
those situations,
you could say, like a
tornado or a hurricane
or some sort of disaster,
including political disasters,
where mental intention
might be able to push things
in one direction or another.
>>NOORY: Doesn't that come back
though and haunt you eventually
when you send out that
kind of negativity?
>>MISHLOVE: If it is negative.
>>NOORY: If it is.
>>MISHLOVE: Chaos magic
needn't be negative.
It could be very positive.
You could say--
>>NOORY: It sounds negative.
>>MISHLOVE: It does because
it's a question of somebody
trying to impose their
will on a larger situation.
But I think, to a
greater or lesser extent,
that's what we all do.
>>NOORY: Well, where
does karma fit into this?
>>MISHLOVE: Karma is a
concept that comes out
of the Hindu tradition.
The research on reincarnation
does not support that notion--
>>NOORY: Really?
>>MISHLOVE: --of karma, no.
>>NOORY: What goes
around comes around.
>>MISHLOVE: Yes, it's
a very popular belief.
As you sew, so shall you reap.
It makes good sense
from spirituality.
But if you look at the actual
cases of reincarnation,
we don't see examples of karma.
What we see-- at least
not that kind of karma.
What we see, instead,
are what you would call--
some scholars in the
Hindu tradition--
which is the emotional and
psychological tendencies
that you have in one lifetime
get carried over to the next.
>>NOORY: Well, how
do you explain this?
I mean, I may be driving down
some street in Los Angeles
or wherever I may be.
And I see a homeless
person at the corner.
And it's very difficult for
me not to roll down my window
and give them something.
>>MISHLOVE: I'm the same way.
>>NOORY: Whether it's $5
or $20 or whatever it is,
it's very difficult
just to pass them.
>>MISHLOVE: I keep a
stack of $2 in the car
just for that purpose.
>>NOORY: So without
any motivation in terms
of wanting something in return,
I'll then go to my PO box,
and there'll be a check
in there from an insurance
company for a refund for $250.
It happens almost all the time.
Why?
Who's creating this?
You give, and you get back.
When you don't plan on it--
I'm not doing it
to get anything.
There's no gain here.
But it seems to
work all the time.
And it's weird.
>>MISHLOVE: I think that
you're doing the right thing.
I encourage everybody to
become the very best version
of themselves.
And that's what you're doing.
And you're not doing
it in the expectation
that the universe
will repay you.
So it's nice when it happens.
>>NOORY: What about the
ability to create things
through your mind and
make things happen.
Do you think that's possible?
>>MISHLOVE: Yes, we
call it manifestation.
And again, it's
an example of what
people who practice chaos
magic and other forms
of ceremonial magic
and so on intend to do.
It's what Ted Owens was doing
with the UFO that appeared,
and he manifested it.
>>NOORY: Manifested it.
Absolutely.
>>MISHLOVE: It's
what you're doing
right now reaching millions of
people on radio and television.
>>NOORY: Manifesting, creating.
>>MISHLOVE: You're manifesting
higher consciousness.
And that is going to
ripple out into the world
and create good things.
>>NOORY: Do you ever
use your dream state
to get these things done too?
I do.
>>MISHLOVE: Yeah.
>>NOORY: I do.
I will go to sleep.
But before I do,
I'll concentrate
on something, somebody,
and I just let it out.
And sure enough,
eventually, it happens.
>>MISHLOVE: I feel very
fortunate in my life
to have been guided by dreams.
Dreams have been responsible
for many of the most important
decisions I've made in my life.
>>NOORY: I would sometimes
concentrate, Jeffrey,
when I was younger, on
specific jobs that I wanted.
And I would try to visualize
the person who was hiring me.
I would know they were
or know about them.
And almost like trying to plant
little seeds into their brain
when they're asleep, but,
incredibly, it worked.
It worked.
Like, two days later,
after applying for a job,
I'd get a call from the person
that come in for an interview.
And I'd get the job
or something like that
by concentrating on that person.
It got to the point where
it was a little scary for me
because I worked
almost all the time.
Again, is that manifestation?
What is that?
Or is there somebody helping me?
>>MISHLOVE: You know, we
don't have all the answers.
My best way to express it is
to say that the universe will
help you when you try to be
the very best person that you
can be.
>>NOORY: Tell us about
your YouTube channel again.
>>MISHLOVE: It's called
"New Thinking Allowed,"
A-L-L-O-W-E-D. You can go
to newthinkingallowed.com.
And for those
amongst your viewers
who want a really serious
education in parapsychology,
it's an incredible resource.
>>NOORY: If Ted Owens
were alive today,
how would he react to what's
happening in the psychic world
these days?
Would he say, my gosh,
everything I said was right,
and now they all agree with me?
What would be happening?
>>MISHLOVE: I think, if
Ted Owens were alive today,
he would be very
disturbed by what's
been going on in the world.
The way, for
example, species are
dying, the way the environment
is being mistreated,
the way in which the academic
world is totally ignoring all
of the important discoveries
in parapsychology
and consciousness.
He, when he was alive, declared
war against the United States
government for their failure
to recognize these things.
And I suspect, knowing
his personality,
he'd still want to be at
war over these issues.
>>NOORY: Jeffrey, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
It's a pleasure.
My intuitiveness tells
me you loved this program
with Dr. Jeffrey Mishlove.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]